In the example we showed the actor
transition and someone asked after is he
kind of declarative sets timeout then,
yeah that's absolutely correct so
after transition causes an action
that the interpreter takes.
And is going to execute it by
moving it into a set timeout and
after a certain timeout it's going to
send an event back to the machine.
And so that's how that after
transition sugar works.
Can the state machine be restarted
from the on done Handler,
by doing a race events?
So the answer is no.
Once a state machine has reached its
top level final State, then it is done.
It can't be restarted.
The way that you would restart
the machine is just by recreating it.
Each region still has
its own on done events,
which would be called when that
region reaches its final states.
Correct?
So this is referring to
the parallel states over here.
So the way that this actually works.
And so just to make this a little
bit more clear, let's instead of
giving these regions a thought like this,
we are going to give it this.
So you can imagine each of these
regions looking like this and
this is also how it's represented
in the X state visualizer.
Just to to make things
a little bit more clear,
each of these regions can have
its own on done transition,
in a parallel state they typically don't
or at least I haven't seen it that way.
But yes,
they can have its own on transition.
Now this on transition for
this parents elements is actually
relative to these children.
This on done is actually
on the grandparents Ellen.
And so this is actually in the SCXML
algorithm so if I grandparents,
there we go an this is actually
interesting to look at
it says if the grandparents
is a parallel states state.
And the child states of that
grandparents if every one of them so
every one of those compound
states is in a final state,
then we on cue this done.states.
And whatever events in an X
state we provide sugar for
that via the on done transition so
that's sort of a long answer but
yeah it's handled in the grandparents for
parallel states.
And so if you envision it by
like when this is done and
this is done that means that these
two are also done which I'll
signify in green then the grandparents
is going to say okay.
Both of these compound states
are in their final states so I,
I am actually done as well.
Is the loading in the on done
transition needed because we
are transitioning to a child state.
So, let's take a look at that,
loading, first, let's find it.
All right, so on done target loading.
All right, so the reason that this is,
is because first of all we're
defining this transition on the parent
states so this player state over here.
And this target is basically
saying that this parent
state needs to move itself
to the loading state so
if we go back to scale
draw over here we're
basically saying that this player state.
And we can represent it like this,
make sure we have the right line.
Yep.
Okay.
We don't, hold on.
There we go.
Okay.
So,
we can represent it by saying okay
when this player state is done,
it is going to transition
to its own child states.
So this is on done.
In this is because we also
have that we have ready and
we have the finish dates just add
the states we have the finish state
over here in that always transition.
[COUGH] And because this is a final state,
that is what's
gonna cause the on Dunn transition
to be taken up here and
transition itself back
into the loading state.
So that's why you have that dot
notation because this one when you
represent a state key as they target,
you're representing it's sibling.
And so that is not what
the most natural approaches.
So if you are in the loading stage, we
are going to wanna go to a sibling stage,
which is ready.
So that is why there is no dots there.
But if you want to go a child
of the state, then you are going
to use a dot in order to signify
it to go inside of that state.